docs/guide/manuscript-record-form.md, before:

---
lang: en-US
title: 4.0 - Manuscript Record Form
description:
---

# 4.0 - Manuscript Record Form

## 4.1 - My Manuscripts Page

There are multiple ways for an Author to access the manuscript record page. This
walkthrough will cover one of those ways.

1. Expand the page selection menu by hovering the mouse over the left-sidebar menu.
2. Click on ***My Manuscripts***.

On the ***My Manuscripts Page***, you will see a list of all manuscript records you
have created or that have been shared with you. You can see the status of these
records by looking at the right side of the manuscript records in the ***All
Manuscripts Box***.

## 4.2 - Create a New MRF

1. From the ***Manuscripts Menu*** on the left, Click on the ***+ Create Manuscript Button***.
2. Select the type of manuscript you wish to publish and Click the ***Continue Button***.
3. Click on the ***Title Text Box*** and type in the name of your manuscript.
4. Click on the ***DFO Regions Selection Box*** and select the ***Lead Region***. Click the ***Continue Button***.
4. Click on the ***Create Button*** to create the manuscript, ***Back*** if you
need to correct information, or ***Cancel*** to cancel the creation of the
manuscript.

## 4.3 - Populating a MRF

Once the Manuscript has been created, it will be given a Unique ID and
designated as a "Draft." The manuscript must be populated with the required
***General Information*** before it can be submitted for review by Management.

At any point during the population of the ***General Information***, you can
save your progress by Clicking on the circular ***Floppy-Disk Icon Button***
located at the bottom right of the page or by scrolling to the bottom of the
form and Clicking on the ***Save Button***. Once progress has been saved, you
are safe to log out of the OSP.

#### Author(s) and Affiliation(s)

##### Adding Author(s) and Affiliation(s)

1. Click on the circular ***+ Button***.
2. Click on the ***Author Dialog Box*** to select it.
3. Begin typing the name of the Author or Affiliate you would like to add. If
the name exists in the database, it will appear, and you can Click on it to
select it. If the name does not appear, continue to step 4; otherwise, continue
to step 6.
4. Click on the circular ***+ Button*** to add a new Author or Affiliate record.
5. Add their First Name, Last Name, Organization Affiliation, E-Mail, ORCID
(Optional). Click the ***Create Button*** to add the new Author Record.
6. Click on whether this Author is the ***Corresponding Author***.
7. Click on the ***Add Button*** to add this Author or Affiliate.
8. Repeat steps 1 - 7 until all Authors or Affiliates have been added.

##### Updating Author or Affiliation

If you wish to update the ***Corresponding Author*** status of an added Author
or Affiliate, Click on their name and Click on the ***Corresponding Author
Slider*** to toggle the state.

##### Removing an Author or Affiliate

If you wish to remove an Author or Affiliate, Click on the ***X Icon*** located
on the right side of the Author's name.

#### General Information

##### Manuscript's Working Title (Required)

By default, the working title is populated from the initial title given with the
creation of the manuscript draft.

To update the Title:

1. Click on the ***Title Dialog Box*** to select it.
2. Backspace the text you wish to change.
3. Type your changes.
4. Click on the circular ***Floppy-Disk Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side
of the page, or scroll down to the bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save
Button*** to save your changes.

##### Lead Region (Required)

By default, the lead region is populated from the initial region given with the
creation of the manuscript draft.

To update the Lead Region:

1. Click on the ***Lead Region Dialog Box***.
2. Click on the region you would like to switch to.
3. Click on the circular ***Floppy-Disk Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side
of the page, or scroll down to the bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save
Button*** to save your changes.

##### Abstract (Required)

Copy-paste your manuscript's abstract into the text-box.

After adding or updating Abstract information, Click on the circular
***Floppy-Disk Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side of the page, or scroll
down to the bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save Button*** to save your
changes.

##### Plain Language Summary (Required)

[Plain Language
Summaries](https://www.canada.ca/en/privy-council/services/communications-community-office/communications-101-boot-camp-canadian-public-servants/plain-language-accessibility-inclusive-communications.html)
are now required for all scientific publications to improve accessibility. The
Plain Language Summary of your manuscript should be written for an 8th-grade
reading comprehension.

##### Generate a Plain Language Summary (Experimental)

You can choose to have a Plain Language Summary generated for you based upon
your abstract. This optional tool will send your abstract to [Open AI's
Chat-GPT](https://openai.com/) service and return a generated Plain Language
Summary. If you choose to use this feature, please familiarize yourself with the
[Treasury Board of Canada
Secretariat](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-government-innovations/responsible-use-ai/guide-use-generative-ai.html)
rules and guidelines on the use of Artificial Intelligence Language Learning
Models and please verify the information of the generated Plain Language Summary
for accuracy as the model may assume information that is not correct.

After adding the Plain Language Summary, Click on the circular ***Floppy-Disk
Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side of the page, or scroll down to the
bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save Button*** to save your changes.

##### Relevance to programs/initiatives/client sector (Required)

Copy-paste or directly input a summary of how this manuscript is relevant to the
program that funded it, how it supports the department's mandate, strategic
plan, and/or regional priorities. 

After adding the Relevance Summary, Click on the circular ***Floppy-Disk Icon
Button*** on the bottom-right side of the page or scroll down to the bottom of
the page and Click on the ***Save Button*** to save your changes.

##### Potential Public Interest (Optional)

Click on whether you believe this manuscript will have potential public
interest. If you do believe that this manuscript will have potential public
interest, you have the option of expanding or providing an explanation why in
the text-box.

If you selected ***Yes*** and/or added any explanatory text, Click on the
circular ***Floppy-Disk Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side of the page, or
scroll down to the bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save Button*** to save
your changes.

#### Funding Sources (Optional)

If you would like to add funding sources that helped generate this manuscript, they can be added by:

1. Click on the ***+ ADD FUNDING SOURCE Button*** on the right side of the
dialog box.
2. Click on the ***Funder Dialog Box*** and select the applicable source.
3. Click on the ***Title Dialog Box*** to select it and type in the title or
name of the funding source.
4. Click on the ***Description Dialog Box*** to select it and type in a brief
explanation of the funding source requirements and how your work achieves
them. If your funding source was not present under the "Funder" drop-down menu,
please provide the information of the funding provider and resource.
5. Click on the ***Create Button*** to add the funder.
6. Repeat steps 1 to 5 until all funding sources have been added.

Once all Funding Sources have been added, Click on the circular ***Floppy-Disk
Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side of the page, or scroll down to the
bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save Button*** to save your changes.

##### Edit Funding Source

If you would like to edit the information of a submitted Funding Source:

1. Click on the ***Pencil Icon Button*** located on the right side of the
funding source.
2. Update the information.
3. Click on the ***Save Button*** to save the changes.

##### Delete a Funding Source

If you would like to delete a submitted Funding Source:

1. Click on the ***Garbage Can Icon Button*** located on the right side of the
funding source.
2. Click on the ***OK Button*** on the dialog box to confirm that you wish to
remove this funding source.

#### Manuscript Upload (Required)

Manuscript upload allows you to upload the most recent version of your
manuscript in a PDF file format. As this submission form is dynamic, you can
re-upload your manuscript if changes have been made during your submission.

1. Click on the ***Upload Manuscript Dialog Box***.
2. Navigate to the location of your manuscript file in your file directory.
3. Click on your manuscript to select it.
4. Press the ***Open Button*** to upload the file.

##### Download a Submitted Manuscript

To download any previously submitted manuscript, Click on the ***Download Icon
Button located to the right of the uploaded manuscript.

##### Delete a Submitted Manuscript

Only the latest submitted manuscript can be deleted. Click on the ***Garbage Can
Icon Button*** located to the right of the uploaded manuscript to delete it.

## 4.4 - Submitting an MRF for Review

Once you have populated all the required information, you can then submit your
manuscript. To do this:

1. Navigate to the bottom of the Manuscript Record page.
2. Click on the ***SUBMIT Button***.
3. Review the ***Submission for Management Review*** consent. Click on the ***Yes Button*** to accept the consent statement.
4. Click on the ***NEXT Button***.
5. Click on the ***Division Manager Dialog Box*** to select it. Begin typing the
name of the division manager you would like to review your manuscript. If the
manager is in the database, their name will appear. Click on their name to
select them. If their name does not appear, continue onto Step-6 to invite them
to the OSP. If not, continue onto Step-9.
6. Click on the ***Not the user you are looking for? Dialog Button***.
7. Populate the manager's First Name, Last Name, E-Mail, and Preferred
Language.
8. Click on the ***INVITE Button*** to invite the manager to the OSP.
9. Click on the ***SUBMIT Button*** to submit the manuscript for review.

Your manuscript has now been submitted for review. You can verify this by
scrolling to the top of the ***Manuscript Record Page*** and checking the ***STATUS
Box*** in the top-right side of the page has changed to ***In Review***.

### Manuscript Management Review

You can check the management review status of your manuscript by Clicking on the
***Management Review Page Button*** located in the ***Manuscript Record Menu***
in the top-left of the ***Manuscript Record Page***.

### Manuscript Progress

Upon completion of the Management Review, the Author can update the journal
submission status of the manuscript. To do this navigate to the ***Manuscript
Progress Page*** by Clicking on the ***Manuscript Progress Button*** located in
the ***Manuscript Record Menu*** in the top-left of the ***Manuscript Record
Page***.

## 4.5 - Managing MRF's

#### Mark as Submitted

To mark the manuscript as submitted to a journal:

1. Click on the ***MARK AS SUBMITTED Button***.
2. Click on the ***Submitted to Journal On Text Box*** and type in the date in
the YYYY-MM-DD (Year, Month, Day) format, or Click on the ***Calendar Icon
Button*** located at the right-end of the text box and select the applicable
year, month, and day.
3. Click on the ***UPDATE Box*** to confirm the date.
	
#### Accepted for Publication

The Author can declare whether their manuscript has been accepted for
publication by the targeted journal or if they have decided to withdraw their
manuscript.

##### Accepted for Publication

1. Click on the ***ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION Button***.
2. Confirm the date that the manuscript was submitted to the journal on.
3. Click on the ***Accepted for Publication On Text Box*** and type in the date
in the YYYY-MM-DD (Year, Month, Day) format, or Click on the ***Calendar Icon
Button*** located at the right-end of the text box and select the applicable
year, month, and day.
4. Click on the ***Journal Text Box*** and begin typing the name of the
journal. If the journal is in the database, their name will appear. Click on
their name to select them. If their name does not appear, please send an email
to the [OSP Support
Team](mailto:DFO.OpenScience-ScienceOuverte.MPO@dfo-mpo.gc.ca) to have them
added.
5. Click on the ***UPDATE Button*** to confirm the publication acceptance entry.

##### Withdraw Manuscript

1. Click on the ***WITHDRAW MANUSCRIPT Button***.
2. Click on the ***WITHDRAW Button*** to confirm that the author is no longer
considering the manuscript for publication.

### Manuscript Record Sharing

You can share your manuscript or see a history of who you have shared your
manuscript with in the ***Sharing Page***. To do this, navigate to the
***Sharing Page*** by Clicking on the ***Sharing Button*** located in the
***Manuscript Record Menu*** in the top-left of the ***Manuscript Record Page***.

#### Share a Manuscript

To share a manuscript with another user:

1. Click on the ***SHARE Button***.
2. Click on the ***User Text Box*** to select it. Begin typing the name or email
address of the user. If the user is in the database, their name will
appear. Click on their name to select them. If their name does not appear,
continue onto Step-3 to invite them to the OSP. If not, continue onto Step-5.
3. Click on the ***Not the user you are looking for? Dialog Button***.
4. Populate the user's First Name, Last Name, E-Mail, and Preferred Language.
5. Click on the ***INVITE Button*** to invite the user to the OSP.
6. Click on the ***Can Edit Toggle Button*** if you would like to enable the
user to edit this manuscript application. **(Disabled by default)**
7. Click on the ***Can Delete Toggle Button*** if you would like to enable the
user to delete this manuscript application. **(Disabled by default)**
8. If you would like the user's ability to access this manuscript to be only
temporary, Click on the ***Expires On Dialog Box*** and type in the date you
wish to end the sharing of this manuscript. You may also Click on the
***Calendar Icon Button*** to select a date.
9. Click the ***SHARE Button*** to share this manuscript.

#### Edit a Manuscript Share

If you have shared a manuscript record and you wish to modify the permissions of
that share:

1. Click on the ***Pencil Icon Button*** located under the **Actions** column on
the right-side of the Share Record.
2. Update the sharing attribute(s) you wish to change.
3. Click on the ***SAVE Button*** to apply the changes.

#### Delete a Manuscript Share

If you have shared a manuscript record and you wish to delete/remove the share:

1. Click on the ***Trash Can Icon Button*** located under the "Actions" column
on the right-side of the Share Record.
2. Confirm the deletion of this share access by Clicking on the ***OK Button***.


<!---
/* Headings for guidance restructure */

# 4.0 - Manuscript Record Form 

## 4.1 - Create a New Manuscript Record

## 4.2 - Populating a Manuscript Record Form

## 4.3 - Submitting an MRF for Review

## 4.4 - Managing Manuscript Records

### 4.4.1 - Editing

### 4.4.2 - Deleting

### 4.4.3 - Sharing

--->

Commit message:

docs(mrf): Updated Generate PLA to Llama

docs/guide/manuscript-record-form.md, after:

---
lang: en-US
title: 4.0 - Manuscript Record Form
description:
---

# 4.0 - Manuscript Record Form

## 4.1 - My Manuscripts Page

There are multiple ways for an Author to access the manuscript record page. This
walkthrough will cover one of those ways.

1. Expand the page selection menu by hovering the mouse over the left-sidebar menu.
2. Click on ***My Manuscripts***.

On the ***My Manuscripts Page***, you will see a list of all manuscript records you
have created or that have been shared with you. You can see the status of these
records by looking at the right side of the manuscript records in the ***All
Manuscripts Box***.

## 4.2 - Create a New MRF

1. From the ***Manuscripts Menu*** on the left, Click on the ***+ Create Manuscript Button***.
2. Select the type of manuscript you wish to publish and Click the ***Continue Button***.
3. Click on the ***Title Text Box*** and type in the name of your manuscript.
4. Click on the ***DFO Regions Selection Box*** and select the ***Lead Region***. Click the ***Continue Button***.
4. Click on the ***Create Button*** to create the manuscript, ***Back*** if you
need to correct information, or ***Cancel*** to cancel the creation of the
manuscript.

## 4.3 - Populating a MRF

Once the Manuscript has been created, it will be given a Unique ID and
designated as a "Draft." The manuscript must be populated with the required
***General Information*** before it can be submitted for review by Management.

At any point during the population of the ***General Information***, you can
save your progress by Clicking on the circular ***Floppy-Disk Icon Button***
located at the bottom right of the page or by scrolling to the bottom of the
form and Clicking on the ***Save Button***. Once progress has been saved, you
are safe to log out of the OSP.

#### Author(s) and Affiliation(s)

##### Adding Author(s) and Affiliation(s)

1. Click on the circular ***+ Button***.
2. Click on the ***Author Dialog Box*** to select it.
3. Begin typing the name of the Author or Affiliate you would like to add. If
the name exists in the database, it will appear, and you can Click on it to
select it. If the name does not appear, continue to step 4; otherwise, continue
to step 6.
4. Click on the circular ***+ Button*** to add a new Author or Affiliate record.
5. Add their First Name, Last Name, Organization Affiliation, E-Mail, ORCID
(Optional). Click the ***Create Button*** to add the new Author Record.
6. Click on whether this Author is the ***Corresponding Author***.
7. Click on the ***Add Button*** to add this Author or Affiliate.
8. Repeat steps 1 - 7 until all Authors or Affiliates have been added.

##### Updating Author or Affiliation

If you wish to update the ***Corresponding Author*** status of an added Author
or Affiliate, Click on their name and Click on the ***Corresponding Author
Slider*** to toggle the state.

##### Removing an Author or Affiliate

If you wish to remove an Author or Affiliate, Click on the ***X Icon*** located
on the right side of the Author's name.

#### General Information

##### Manuscript's Working Title (Required)

By default, the working title is populated from the initial title given with the
creation of the manuscript draft.

To update the Title:

1. Click on the ***Title Dialog Box*** to select it.
2. Backspace the text you wish to change.
3. Type your changes.
4. Click on the circular ***Floppy-Disk Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side
of the page, or scroll down to the bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save
Button*** to save your changes.

##### Lead Region (Required)

By default, the lead region is populated from the initial region given with the
creation of the manuscript draft.

To update the Lead Region:

1. Click on the ***Lead Region Dialog Box***.
2. Click on the region you would like to switch to.
3. Click on the circular ***Floppy-Disk Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side
of the page, or scroll down to the bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save
Button*** to save your changes.

##### Abstract (Required)

Copy-paste your manuscript's abstract into the text-box.

After adding or updating Abstract information, Click on the circular
***Floppy-Disk Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side of the page, or scroll
down to the bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save Button*** to save your
changes.

##### Plain Language Summary (Required)

[Plain Language
Summaries](https://www.canada.ca/en/privy-council/services/communications-community-office/communications-101-boot-camp-canadian-public-servants/plain-language-accessibility-inclusive-communications.html)
are now required for all scientific publications to improve accessibility. The
Plain Language Summary of your manuscript should be written for an 8th-grade
reading comprehension.

##### Generate a Plain Language Summary

You can choose to have a Plain Language Summary generated for you based on
your abstract. This tool runs locally within the DFO network, meaning that any information sent to this tool
**will not leave the DFO intranet**.

This tool works by using an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Large Language Model
(LLM) developed by [Meta, called Llama 3.2](https://www.llama.com/). Llama 3.2 is designed for use in a closed network
environment and therefore **cannot send any information to Meta or outside the DFO intranet**.

When using any AI tool while connected to a Government of Canada network, it is good practice to familiarize yourself with the
[Treasury Board of Canada
Secretariat](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-government-innovations/responsible-use-ai/guide-use-generative-ai.html)
rules and guidelines on the use of Artificial Intelligence Language Models.

:::warning
Please verify the Generated Plain Language Summary for accuracy!
:::

After adding the Plain Language Summary, Click on the circular ***Floppy-Disk
Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side of the page, or scroll down to the
bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save Button*** to save your changes.

##### Relevance to programs/initiatives/client sector (Required)

Copy-paste or directly input a summary of how this manuscript is relevant to the
program that funded it, how it supports the department's mandate, strategic
plan, and/or regional priorities. 

After adding the Relevance Summary, Click on the circular ***Floppy-Disk Icon
Button*** on the bottom-right side of the page or scroll down to the bottom of
the page and Click on the ***Save Button*** to save your changes.

##### Potential Public Interest (Optional)

Click on whether you believe this manuscript will have potential public
interest. If you do believe that this manuscript will have potential public
interest, you have the option of expanding or providing an explanation why in
the text-box.

If you selected ***Yes*** and/or added any explanatory text, Click on the
circular ***Floppy-Disk Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side of the page, or
scroll down to the bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save Button*** to save
your changes.

#### Funding Sources (Optional)

If you would like to add funding sources that helped generate this manuscript, they can be added by:

1. Click on the ***+ ADD FUNDING SOURCE Button*** on the right side of the
dialog box.
2. Click on the ***Funder Dialog Box*** and select the applicable source.
3. Click on the ***Title Dialog Box*** to select it and type in the title or
name of the funding source.
4. Click on the ***Description Dialog Box*** to select it and type in a brief
explanation of the funding source requirements and how your work achieves
them. If your funding source was not present under the "Funder" drop-down menu,
please provide the information of the funding provider and resource.
5. Click on the ***Create Button*** to add the funder.
6. Repeat steps 1 to 5 until all funding sources have been added.

Once all Funding Sources have been added, Click on the circular ***Floppy-Disk
Icon Button*** on the bottom-right side of the page, or scroll down to the
bottom of the page and Click on the ***Save Button*** to save your changes.

##### Edit Funding Source

If you would like to edit the information of a submitted Funding Source:

1. Click on the ***Pencil Icon Button*** located on the right side of the
funding source.
2. Update the information.
3. Click on the ***Save Button*** to save the changes.

##### Delete a Funding Source

If you would like to delete a submitted Funding Source:

1. Click on the ***Garbage Can Icon Button*** located on the right side of the
funding source.
2. Click on the ***OK Button*** on the dialog box to confirm that you wish to
remove this funding source.

#### Manuscript Upload (Required)

Manuscript upload allows you to upload the most recent version of your
manuscript in a PDF file format. As this submission form is dynamic, you can
re-upload your manuscript if changes have been made during your submission.

1. Click on the ***Upload Manuscript Dialog Box***.
2. Navigate to the location of your manuscript file in your file directory.
3. Click on your manuscript to select it.
4. Press the ***Open Button*** to upload the file.

##### Download a Submitted Manuscript

To download any previously submitted manuscript, Click on the ***Download Icon
Button located to the right of the uploaded manuscript.

##### Delete a Submitted Manuscript

Only the latest submitted manuscript can be deleted. Click on the ***Garbage Can
Icon Button*** located to the right of the uploaded manuscript to delete it.

## 4.4 - Submitting an MRF for Review

Once you have populated all the required information, you can then submit your
manuscript. To do this:

1. Navigate to the bottom of the Manuscript Record page.
2. Click on the ***SUBMIT Button***.
3. Review the ***Submission for Management Review*** consent. Click on the ***Yes Button*** to accept the consent statement.
4. Click on the ***NEXT Button***.
5. Click on the ***Division Manager Dialog Box*** to select it. Begin typing the
name of the division manager you would like to review your manuscript. If the
manager is in the database, their name will appear. Click on their name to
select them. If their name does not appear, continue onto Step-6 to invite them
to the OSP. If not, continue onto Step-9.
6. Click on the ***Not the user you are looking for? Dialog Button***.
7. Populate the manager's First Name, Last Name, E-Mail, and Preferred
Language.
8. Click on the ***INVITE Button*** to invite the manager to the OSP.
9. Click on the ***SUBMIT Button*** to submit the manuscript for review.

Your manuscript has now been submitted for review. You can verify this by
scrolling to the top of the ***Manuscript Record Page*** and checking the ***STATUS
Box*** in the top-right side of the page has changed to ***In Review***.

### Manuscript Management Review

You can check the management review status of your manuscript by Clicking on the
***Management Review Page Button*** located in the ***Manuscript Record Menu***
in the top-left of the ***Manuscript Record Page***.

### Manuscript Progress

Upon completion of the Management Review, the Author can update the journal
submission status of the manuscript. To do this navigate to the ***Manuscript
Progress Page*** by Clicking on the ***Manuscript Progress Button*** located in
the ***Manuscript Record Menu*** in the top-left of the ***Manuscript Record
Page***.

## 4.5 - Managing MRF's

#### Mark as Submitted

To mark the manuscript as submitted to a journal:

1. Click on the ***MARK AS SUBMITTED Button***.
2. Click on the ***Submitted to Journal On Text Box*** and type in the date in
the YYYY-MM-DD (Year, Month, Day) format, or Click on the ***Calendar Icon
Button*** located at the right-end of the text box and select the applicable
year, month, and day.
3. Click on the ***UPDATE Box*** to confirm the date.
	
#### Accepted for Publication

The Author can declare whether their manuscript has been accepted for
publication by the targeted journal or if they have decided to withdraw their
manuscript.

##### Accepted for Publication

1. Click on the ***ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION Button***.
2. Confirm the date that the manuscript was submitted to the journal on.
3. Click on the ***Accepted for Publication On Text Box*** and type in the date
in the YYYY-MM-DD (Year, Month, Day) format, or Click on the ***Calendar Icon
Button*** located at the right-end of the text box and select the applicable
year, month, and day.
4. Click on the ***Journal Text Box*** and begin typing the name of the
journal. If the journal is in the database, their name will appear. Click on
their name to select them. If their name does not appear, please send an email
to the [OSP Support
Team](mailto:DFO.OpenScience-ScienceOuverte.MPO@dfo-mpo.gc.ca) to have them
added.
5. Click on the ***UPDATE Button*** to confirm the publication acceptance entry.

##### Withdraw Manuscript

1. Click on the ***WITHDRAW MANUSCRIPT Button***.
2. Click on the ***WITHDRAW Button*** to confirm that the author is no longer
considering the manuscript for publication.

### Manuscript Record Sharing

You can share your manuscript or see a history of who you have shared your
manuscript with in the ***Sharing Page***. To do this, navigate to the
***Sharing Page*** by Clicking on the ***Sharing Button*** located in the
***Manuscript Record Menu*** in the top-left of the ***Manuscript Record Page***.

#### Share a Manuscript

To share a manuscript with another user:

1. Click on the ***SHARE Button***.
2. Click on the ***User Text Box*** to select it. Begin typing the name or email
address of the user. If the user is in the database, their name will
appear. Click on their name to select them. If their name does not appear,
continue onto Step-3 to invite them to the OSP. If not, continue onto Step-5.
3. Click on the ***Not the user you are looking for? Dialog Button***.
4. Populate the user's First Name, Last Name, E-Mail, and Preferred Language.
5. Click on the ***INVITE Button*** to invite the user to the OSP.
6. Click on the ***Can Edit Toggle Button*** if you would like to enable the
user to edit this manuscript application. **(Disabled by default)**
7. Click on the ***Can Delete Toggle Button*** if you would like to enable the
user to delete this manuscript application. **(Disabled by default)**
8. If you would like the user's ability to access this manuscript to be only
temporary, Click on the ***Expires On Dialog Box*** and type in the date you
wish to end the sharing of this manuscript. You may also Click on the
***Calendar Icon Button*** to select a date.
9. Click the ***SHARE Button*** to share this manuscript.

#### Edit a Manuscript Share

If you have shared a manuscript record and you wish to modify the permissions of
that share:

1. Click on the ***Pencil Icon Button*** located under the **Actions** column on
the right-side of the Share Record.
2. Update the sharing attribute(s) you wish to change.
3. Click on the ***SAVE Button*** to apply the changes.

#### Delete a Manuscript Share

If you have shared a manuscript record and you wish to delete/remove the share:

1. Click on the ***Trash Can Icon Button*** located under the "Actions" column
on the right-side of the Share Record.
2. Confirm the deletion of this share access by Clicking on the ***OK Button***.
