docs/en/publication-process/publications.md, before:

---
lang: en-US
title: Publication Management
description:
---
# Publications

## Submitting for Publication

After completing the Management Review Process, you are now ready to submit your manuscript to a journal for peer review and publication!

Please continue to update your manuscript record form throughout the publication process to improve publishing time metrics and increase visibility of your work.

### Mark as Submitted

To mark your manuscript as submitted to a journal:

1. Open the manuscript record form.
2. Select **Manuscript Progress** from the left menu.
3. Click the **MARK AS SUBMITTED button**.
4. In the **Submitted to Journal On field**, type the date in YYYY-MM-DD format, or click the **Calendar icon** to select the applicable date.
5. Click the **UPDATE button** to confirm the submission date.

### Accepted for Publication

To mark your manuscript as accepted for publication:

1. Open the manuscript record form.
2. Select **Manuscript Progress** from the left menu.
3. Click the **ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION button**.
4. Confirm the date the manuscript was submitted to the journal.
5. In the **Accepted for Publication On field**, type the date in YYYY-MM-DD format, or click the **Calendar icon** to select the applicable date.
6. In the **Journal field**, begin typing the name of the journal. If the journal is in the database, it will appear. Select the name from the list.
   - If the journal is not listed, email the [OSP Support Team](mailto:DFO.OpenScience-ScienceOuverte.MPO@dfo-mpo.gc.ca) to have it added.
7. Click the **UPDATE button** to confirm the publication acceptance entry.

### Withdraw Manuscript

To withdraw your manuscript:

1. Open the manuscript record form.
2. Select **Manuscript Progress** from the left menu.
3. Click the **WITHDRAW MANUSCRIPT button**.
4. Click the **WITHDRAW button** to confirm.

## My Publications Page

The **My Publications page** allows you to view all publication records that you have created or that have been shared with you. From this page, you can create new publication records or manage existing ones.

To access the **My Publications** page:

1. Hover over the left-sidebar menu to expand the page selection menu.
2. Click on **My Publications**.

![My Publications](/images/publication-process/my_publications.png)

## Creating a Record for an Existing Publication

You can create a publication record for work you have published outside of the OSP. Creating a publication record for existing work will improve its visibility within DFO and help create a centralized digital archive for documents associated with your publication.

To create a new publication record:

1. Hover over the left-sidebar menu to expand the page selection menu.
2. Select **My Publications**.
3. Click the **CREATE PUBLICATION button**.
4. Click the **NEXT button**.
5. Complete the **Publication Details form** > Click the **NEXT button**.
    - Title
    - Journal/Series
    - DOI (Optional)
    - Lead Region
6. Complete the [**Publication Dates and Publication Access form**](#publication-dates) > Click the **CREATE button**.
    - Accepted On (Optional)
    - Published On
    - Published as Open Access
    - Embargoed Until (If applicable)

![Create Publication](/images/publication-process/pub_create.png)

This will create a new publication record and open the **Publication Details form**.

## Updating a Publication Record

A publication record may evolve after submission to a journal. It should be updated as additional metadata and documents are created.

To update a publication record:

1. Navigate to the **My Publications** page.
2. Click on the publication record you wish to update.

![Update Publication](/images/publication-process/pub_update_authors.png)

### Author(s) and Affiliation(s)

#### Adding Author(s) and Affiliation(s)

1. Click on the **+ button**.
2. Click on the **Author field**.
3. Start typing the name of the author or affiliate you want to add. If their name exists in the database, it will appear. Click on their name to select it. If their name doesn't appear, follow these steps:
   1. Click on the **+ button** to add a new author or affiliate record.
   2. Add their First Name, Last Name, Organization Affiliation, E-Mail, and ORCID (Optional) > Click the **Create button** to add the new author record.
4. Indicate whether this author is the **Corresponding Author**.
5. Click on the **Add button** to add the author or affiliate.
6. Repeat steps 1–6 until all authors or affiliates have been added.

![Adding Authors](/images/publication-process/adding_authors.png)

#### Updating Author or Affiliation

To update the **Corresponding Author** status of an added author or affiliate:

1. Click on their name.
2. Toggle the **Corresponding Author** slider to change the status.

#### Removing an Author or Affiliate

To remove an author or affiliate:

1. Click on the **X icon** located on the right side of their name.

### General Information

![Publication General Info](/images/publication-process/pub_general_info.png)

#### Title

To update the title:

1. Select the **Title field**.
2. Update the title text.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

#### Lead Region

To update the lead region:

1. Select the **Lead Region field**.
2. Choose the new lead region from the drop-down list.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

#### Journal/Series

To update the journal or series the manuscript was submitted to:

1. Select the **Journal/Series field**.
2. Type the title or ISSN of the publication.
3. Select the new journal or series from the drop-down list. If it is not listed, please email [OSP Support](mailto:DFO.OpenScience-ScienceOuverte.MPO@dfo-mpo.gc.ca).
4. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

#### DOI

To add or update the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) for your publication:

1. Select the **DOI field**.
2. Enter the DOI in this format: `https://doi.org/10.1038/xyz123`.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

#### Publication Dates

To update the date your manuscript was accepted:

1. Select the **Accepted on field**.
2. Enter the updated date in the YYYY-MM-DD format, or click the **Calendar icon** to select a date from the calendar widget.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

#### Publication Access

If your publication was published under an Open Science License:

1. Select the **Published as Open Access toggle switch**.
2. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

If your publication has an **Embargo Date**:

1. Select the **Embargoed Until field**.
2. Enter the updated date in YYYY-MM-DD format, or click the **Calendar icon** to select a date from the calendar widget.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

While under embargo, your uploaded publication will not be available for download by other OSP users. Authorized users, such as authors and managers, can still access the uploaded copy during the embargo period.

### Published Work

![Published Work](/images/publication-process/published_work.png)

To upload the latest copy of your publication:

1. Select the **Drop the file or click to automatically upload a new version of the publication field**.
2. Locate the PDF copy of your publication in the File Explorer widget > Click to select it > Click the **Open button**.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

### Supplementary Files

Supplementary files can be uploaded to your publication record as they are created. These files can be PDF or Word files and should be uploaded to complete the publication record.

![Supplementary File Types](/images/publication-process/supplement_types.png)

To upload a supplementary file:

1. Select the **Document Type field**.
2. Choose the document type from the list.
3. Select the **Select or drop file here field** > Locate your file in the File Explorer widget > Click to select it > Click the **Open button**.
4. Optionally, provide context in the **Description field**.
5. Repeat steps 1 - 4 to add multiple supplementary files.
6. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

### Mark as Published or Save

If your work is confirmed to be published:

1. Click the **MARK AS PUBLISHED button**.

This will mark your publication as "Published" and make it viewable under the [Publication Explorer](../features/publication-explorer.md).

If you are updating a published record or awaiting publication confirmation:

1. Click the **SAVE button**.

[Return to Home Page](/)

Commit message:

docs: added pub delete feat

docs/en/publication-process/publications.md, after:

---
lang: en-US
title: Publication Management
description:
---
# Publications

## Submitting for Publication

After completing the Management Review Process, you are now ready to submit your manuscript to a journal for peer review and publication!

Please continue to update your manuscript record form throughout the publication process to improve publishing time metrics and increase visibility of your work.

### Mark as Submitted

To mark your manuscript as submitted to a journal:

1. Open the manuscript record form.
2. Select **Manuscript Progress** from the left menu.
3. Click the **MARK AS SUBMITTED button**.
4. In the **Submitted to Journal On field**, type the date in YYYY-MM-DD format, or click the **Calendar icon** to select the applicable date.
5. Click the **UPDATE button** to confirm the submission date.

### Accepted for Publication

To mark your manuscript as accepted for publication:

1. Open the manuscript record form.
2. Select **Manuscript Progress** from the left menu.
3. Click the **ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION button**.
4. Confirm the date the manuscript was submitted to the journal.
5. In the **Accepted for Publication On field**, type the date in YYYY-MM-DD format, or click the **Calendar icon** to select the applicable date.
6. In the **Journal field**, begin typing the name of the journal. If the journal is in the database, it will appear. Select the name from the list.
   - If the journal is not listed, email the [OSP Support Team](mailto:DFO.OpenScience-ScienceOuverte.MPO@dfo-mpo.gc.ca) to have it added.
7. Click the **UPDATE button** to confirm the publication acceptance entry.

### Withdraw Manuscript

To withdraw your manuscript:

1. Open the manuscript record form.
2. Select **Manuscript Progress** from the left menu.
3. Click the **WITHDRAW MANUSCRIPT button**.
4. Click the **WITHDRAW button** to confirm.

## My Publications Page

The **My Publications page** allows you to view all publication records that you have created or that have been shared with you. From this page, you can create new publication records or manage existing ones.

To access the **My Publications** page:

1. Hover over the left-sidebar menu to expand the page selection menu.
2. Click on **My Publications**.

![My Publications](/images/publication-process/my_publications.png)

## Creating a Record for an Existing Publication

You can create a publication record for work you have published outside of the OSP. Creating a publication record for existing work will improve its visibility within DFO and help create a centralized digital archive for documents associated with your publication.

To create a new publication record:

1. Hover over the left-sidebar menu to expand the page selection menu.
2. Select **My Publications**.
3. Click the **CREATE PUBLICATION button**.
4. Click the **NEXT button**.
5. Complete the **Publication Details form** > Click the **NEXT button**.
    - Title
    - Journal/Series
    - DOI (Optional)
    - Lead Region
6. Complete the [**Publication Dates and Publication Access form**](#publication-dates) > Click the **CREATE button**.
    - Accepted On (Optional)
    - Published On
    - Published as Open Access
    - Embargoed Until (If applicable)

![Create Publication](/images/publication-process/pub_create.png)

This will create a new publication record and open the **Publication Details form**.

## Updating a Publication Record

A publication record may evolve after submission to a journal. It should be updated as additional metadata and documents are created.

To update a publication record:

1. Navigate to the **My Publications** page.
2. Click on the publication record you wish to update.

![Update Publication](/images/publication-process/pub_update_authors.png)

### Author(s) and Affiliation(s)

#### Adding Author(s) and Affiliation(s)

1. Click on the **+ button**.
2. Click on the **Author field**.
3. Start typing the name of the author or affiliate you want to add. If their name exists in the database, it will appear. Click on their name to select it. If their name doesn't appear, follow these steps:
   1. Click on the **+ button** to add a new author or affiliate record.
   2. Add their First Name, Last Name, Organization Affiliation, E-Mail, and ORCID (Optional) > Click the **Create button** to add the new author record.
4. Indicate whether this author is the **Corresponding Author**.
5. Click on the **Add button** to add the author or affiliate.
6. Repeat steps 1–6 until all authors or affiliates have been added.

![Adding Authors](/images/publication-process/adding_authors.png)

#### Updating Author or Affiliation

To update the **Corresponding Author** status of an added author or affiliate:

1. Click on their name.
2. Toggle the **Corresponding Author** slider to change the status.

#### Removing an Author or Affiliate

To remove an author or affiliate:

1. Click on the **X icon** located on the right side of their name.

### General Information

![Publication General Info](/images/publication-process/pub_general_info.png)

#### Title

To update the title:

1. Select the **Title field**.
2. Update the title text.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

#### Lead Region

To update the lead region:

1. Select the **Lead Region field**.
2. Choose the new lead region from the drop-down list.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

#### Journal/Series

To update the journal or series the manuscript was submitted to:

1. Select the **Journal/Series field**.
2. Type the title or ISSN of the publication.
3. Select the new journal or series from the drop-down list. If it is not listed, please email [OSP Support](mailto:DFO.OpenScience-ScienceOuverte.MPO@dfo-mpo.gc.ca).
4. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

#### DOI

To add or update the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) for your publication:

1. Select the **DOI field**.
2. Enter the DOI in this format: `https://doi.org/10.1038/xyz123`.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

#### Publication Dates

To update the date your manuscript was accepted:

1. Select the **Accepted on field**.
2. Enter the updated date in the YYYY-MM-DD format, or click the **Calendar icon** to select a date from the calendar widget.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

#### Publication Access

If your publication was published under an Open Science License:

1. Select the **Published as Open Access toggle switch**.
2. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

If your publication has an **Embargo Date**:

1. Select the **Embargoed Until field**.
2. Enter the updated date in YYYY-MM-DD format, or click the **Calendar icon** to select a date from the calendar widget.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

While under embargo, your uploaded publication will not be available for download by other OSP users. Authorized users, such as authors and managers, can still access the uploaded copy during the embargo period.

### Published Work

![Published Work](/images/publication-process/published_work.png)

To upload the latest copy of your publication:

1. Select the **Drop the file or click to automatically upload a new version of the publication field**.
2. Locate the PDF copy of your publication in the File Explorer widget > Click to select it > Click the **Open button**.
3. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

### Supplementary Files

Supplementary files can be uploaded to your publication record as they are created. These files can be PDF or Word files and should be uploaded to complete the publication record.

![Supplementary File Types](/images/publication-process/supplement_types.png)

To upload a supplementary file:

1. Select the **Document Type field**.
2. Choose the document type from the list.
3. Select the **Select or drop file here field** > Locate your file in the File Explorer widget > Click to select it > Click the **Open button**.
4. Optionally, provide context in the **Description field**.
5. Repeat steps 1 - 4 to add multiple supplementary files.
6. Click the **SAVE button** at the bottom of the page or the **Floppy-disk icon**.

### Mark as Published or Save

If your work is confirmed to be published:

1. Click the **MARK AS PUBLISHED button**.

This will mark your publication as "Published" and make it viewable under the [Publication Explorer](../features/publication-explorer.md).

If you are updating a published record or awaiting publication confirmation:

1. Click the **SAVE button**.


## Deleting a Publication Record

There may be a situation where a **Publication Record** has been created but is no longer needed on the OSP. For example, a duplicate Publication Record may have been created, and only one should remain on the OSP.

::: important

A **Publication Record** that is created from a **Manuscript Record Form** cannot be deleted!

:::

When a Publication Record is deleted, it is removed from the application and placed in the **Removal Queue**. The Publication Record will remain in the Removal Queue for 90 (ninety) days before it is permanently deleted. While in the Removal Queue, the Publication cannot be accessed from the application but may be restored by OSP technical support.  
If you have accidentally deleted a Publication Record and would like it restored, please contact [OSP Technical Support](mailto:DFO.OpenScience-ScienceOuverte.MPO@dfo-mpo.gc.ca).

::: danger

A Publication Record **cannot** be restored after the 90 days have elapsed!

:::

![Publication Delete](/images/publication-process/publication_delete.png)

To delete a Publication Record, you must either be the **Record Creator** or have the **Chief Editor** role:

1. Open the Publication Record you wish to delete.
2. Scroll to the bottom of the page.
3. Click the **Delete Publication** button.
4. Click the **OK** button on the confirmation dialog box.


[Return to Home Page](/)
